Syllabus
Math 215 (Introduction to Linear Algebra)
University of Rhode Island, Spring 2012
Contact Information:
Instructor: Dr. Glenn Faubert Contact via SAKAI Messages Office: Lippitt Hall 202A
Email: gfaubert@math.uri.edu
SAKAI messages greatly preferred. Office Hours: See SAKAI
Course Description/Learning Outcomes:
This is an undergraduate course in linear algebra for students of engineering, science, and mathematics. Linear algebra is the
study of linear systems of equations, vector spaces, and linear transformations. Solving systems of linear equations is a basic
tool of many mathematical procedures used for solving problems in science and engineering. In this class we will
concentrate on the mathematical theory and methods of linear algebra. The student will become competent in solving linear
equations, performing matrix algebra, calculating determinants, and finding eigenvalues and eigenvectors. On the
theoretical side, the student will come to understand a matrix as a linear transformations relative to a basis of a vector space.
The student will become comfortable with the vector space Rn and be exposed to vector spaces more generally by
working on examples with polynomials in Pn and continuous functions in C [ a ,b ]. The definite integral from
calculus will be revisited and recognized as an inner product. The student will understand the concept of orthogonality of
vectors and its use in projecting vectors into subspaces and decomposing vectors into components. Finally the student will
learn how to solve over constrained systems using the method of least squares. The engineering and science student will
have a solid base of understanding in elementary linear algebra as required for further undergraduate work in those fields
and the mathematics student will be prepared for a more formal and rigorous linear algebra course.
Prerequisite for this course is one semester of college calculus, (At URI: MTH131 or MTH141) however the mathematical
maturity obtained from two semesters of calculus would serve you well and is recommended.
